---
layout: post
title: Boulder Bike Bash
subtitle: A Family Cycling Adventure in the UT Desert
description: A Family Cycling Adventure in the UT Desert
image: assets/images/pic31.jpg
---
Touring by bicycle can be a memorable individual experience. Several hours in the saddle, moving the legs in rhythm with the breath, is amenable to types of meditative states achieved by dzogchen masters. Touring is an effective method for spiritual growth for some. For others, it is a particularly unappealing version of hell.

A few months ago I drew a course with a few goals in mind:

0. Have fun
1. Bring my family together for the first time in ten years
2. Share my passion for cycling (get people on bikes)
3. See a familiar place in a new way

But it didn't start out this way. I had ten or more selfish reasons to plan this trip. To start, I wanted to get in one more *solo* bike tour before the year was up. The course selection was tailored to my own tastes. I chose the most beautiful and rugged place I could think of; with pristine geology and steep climbs. Nested among National Parks, wilderness areas, and famous red-rock landscapes, southwestern Utah was the perfect candidate.

The original course was a 400-mile unsupported solo adventure---a point-to-point epic that was going to take me to my mental and physical limits. This changed after a conversation with my cousin, Cassidy.

I can't remember how it got on her radar, but she wanted a piece of the action. Of course her badass bike-racing partner, [B-Rad](https://www.instagram.com/b_radcycles/), wanted in too. The course slowly changed as four more family members signed up to suffer in the desert. Extra bodies meant extra logistics. I needed to consider everyone's abilities and interests too.

The change brought mixed feelings of excitement and disappointment. I was stoked to ride with the family, but I knew this meant that the "adventure dial" had to be turned down, as I saw it. The course had to be shortened. The climbs abbreviated. It was too risky to go unsupported with riders of mixed abilities. This wasn't *my* trip anymore and I had to come to terms with that.

A silver-lining of the pandemic allowed us to book a [guest ranch](https://bouldermountainguestranch.com/) cabin in Boulder, Utah for pennies. From our home base we spent three days being humbled by the desert's magnificent cliffs, box canyons, and a heroic effort up [Hell's Backbone](https://www.visitutah.com/places-to-go/parks-outdoors/dixie-national-forest/hell-s-backbone-road-and-box-death-hollow). Two E-bikes and a [magical rainbow school bus](https://www.instagram.com/fuegosol_official/?hl=en) allowed everyone to experience the exposure without months of training. This was a huge blessing. I never expected to find myself grinding up double-digit grades to 9200' with that crew---whose cycling experience ranged from hard-core racers to fair-weather beach cruisers.

In the end, giving up an epic unsupported adventure for a shared touring experience with my family was the best decision I could have made. It happened seemingly by chance, or perhaps it was meant to be.

Much love. Go ride bikes.
